This should round out the rest of the CLI (#30)
osrf/ros2multirobotbook: src/ros2_cli.md

  Call `ros2 topic <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

Like a Russian nesting doll this ROS command has sub commands! There are quite a
few subcommands; we won't give a treatment of all of them, but let's look at a

> few of them.What's great about the ROS CLI is that the sub commands have their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
few of them.  What's great about the ROS CLI is that the sub commands have their
```

other commands we've worked through it is instructive to look at list
first. Let's see what the docs say about the list command and then see what
happens when we call the sub command.

``` {.sourceCode .bash}
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~$ ros2 param list --help
usage: ros2 param list [-h] [--spin-time SPIN_TIME] [--include-hidden-nodes]
                       [--param-prefixes PARAM_PREFIXES [PARAM_PREFIXES ...]]
                       [node_name]

Output a list of available parameters

positional arguments:
  node_name             Name of the ROS node

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --spin-time SPIN_TIME
                        Spin time in seconds to wait for discovery (only
                        applies when not using an already running daemon)
  --include-hidden-nodes
                        Consider hidden nodes as well
  --param-prefixes PARAM_PREFIXES [PARAM_PREFIXES ...]
                        Only list parameters with the provided prefixes
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~$ ros2 param list 
/turtlesim:
  background_b
  background_g
  background_r
  use_sim_time

```

> The only argument  of note in this sub command is the `node_name` which allows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only argument of note in this sub command is the `node_name` which allows
```

  record  ros2 bag record
```

> As you can see there are three sub commands, record, play, and info. In this
> command you can record a bag file, find information about a bag file, and then
> play/replay the file you just recorded. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see there are three sub commands: record, play, and info. With these
commands you can record a bag file, play/replay the file you just recorded, and 
find information about a bag file,  
```

> Let's try recording our first bag file to do this we'll need three terminals all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's try recording our first bag file. To do this, we'll need three terminals all
```

  --no-discovery        disables topic auto discovery during recording: only
                        topics present at startup will be recorded
  -p POLLING_INTERVAL, --polling-interval POLLING_INTERVAL
                        time in ms to wait between querying available topics
                        for recording. It has no effect if --no-discovery is
                        enabled.
  -b MAX_BAG_SIZE, --max-bag-size MAX_BAG_SIZE
                        maximum size in bytes before the bagfile will be
                        split. Default it is zero, recording written in single
                        bagfile and splitting is disabled.
```

We can see from the help file that the syntax for recording a bag is to simply
give the sub command a list of topics to record. Most of the other arguments are
for more advanced users to help configure how and when data is stored. It is
worth noting that there is a `-a, --all` command that records all the data. You
can also specify the output bag file with the `-o, --output command`. 

Let's go ahead and run our bag command, and let's bag the pose data on the
`/turtle1/pose` topic and save it to the file `turtle1.bag` using the `-o`

> flag. Be aware that the program will continue bagging data  until you hit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
flag. Be aware that the program will continue bagging data until you hit
```

Messages:          4249
Topic information: Topic: /turtle1/pose | Type: turtlesim/msg/Pose | Count: 4249 | Serialization Format: cdr
```
Once you have collected a bag file you can replay the file just like a running
system.  Bags are a great tool for debugging and testing. You can treat a ROS bag
like a recording of a running ROS system. When you play a bag file you
can use most of the ros2 CLI tools to inspect the recorded topics.

To replay the bag, first use `CTRL+C` to turn off the main
turtle node and the `draw_square` node. Now in a new terminal replay the bag
file using the following command:

``` {.sourceCode .bash}
kscottz@ade:~$ ros2 bag play turtle1
[INFO] [rosbag2_storage]: Opened database 'turtle1'.
```

Nothing should happen visibly, but a lot is happening under the hood.
To see what is happening go to a second terminal. Just like a running robot,

> you should be able to `list` and `echo` topics. See my example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you should be able to `list` and `echo` topics. See the example below.
```

---
```

ROS2 Component Command
======================

ROS2 Daemon Command
===================

ROS2 Doctor Command
===================

With any complex system problems can sometimes arise, and knowing how to describe your
system and what is happening can do a lot to help others help you fix your
problem. ROS 2 has a `doctor` command that you can use to print a variety of

> reports that you can use to help communicate the state of your system to others

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reports that will help you communicate the state of your system to others
```

trying to provide help. Whether it is one of your co-workers, a vendor, or an

> on-line forum providing detailed and complete information about your ROS system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on-line forum, providing detailed and complete information about your ROS system
```

can go a long way to solving your problem. Let's call `--help` on the ROS 2
doctor command. 

``` {.sourceCode .bash}
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~$ ros2 doctor --help
usage: ros2 doctor [-h] [--report | --report-failed] [--include-warnings]

Check ROS setup and other potential issues

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --report, -r          Print all reports.
  --report-failed, -rf  Print reports of failed checks only.
  --include-warnings, -iw
                        Include warnings as failed checks. Warnings are
                        ignored by default.
```

As we can see from the help file we have a couple of report options. One option

> is to print the full report (`-r`), or we just what failed, with `-rf`. If your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is to print the full report (`-r`), or just what failed, with `-rf`. If you
```

run `ros2 doctor -r` you should see a fairly lengthy report generated giving
information about your computer's operating system, your networking
configuration, and your running ROS system. If you every run into an issue you
should always include this full report. 

ROS 2 Interface
===============

As you've already seen ROS uses standard messages so that different packages and
programs, potentially written in different programming languages, can all talk
to one another. To make this all work ROS uses standard messages, and
communication protocols built on top of those standard messages. This can make
finding type information about a particular message, service, or action

> difficult. To help developers write both CLI command calls, and develop client
> code the ROS CLI has the interface command. We've touched on this command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
difficult. To help developers write both CLI command calls and develop client
code, the ROS CLI has the interface command. We've touched on this command
```

briefly in other sections, as it is your go to tool for message type
information. 

To better understand the interface command let's start by looking at its high
level help command to see what sub commands are available. 

``` {.sourceCode .bash}
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~/Code/ros2multirobotbook/src$ ros2 interface --help
usage: ros2 interface [-h]
                      Call `ros2 interface <command> -h` for more detailed
                      usage. ...

Show information about ROS interfaces

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

Commands:
  list      List all interface types available
  package   Output a list of available interface types within one package
  packages  Output a list of packages that provide interfaces
  proto     Output an interface prototype
  show      Output the interface definition

  Call `ros2 interface <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

> As we can see above the interface command above there are quite a few sub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we can see above, there are quite a few sub
```

commands in interface. All of them are geared towards helping you understand
available message types. Let's examine the list sub command in depth. The list
command will list all of the available messages, services, and actions on your
system. This command has flags that can help you narrow down the scope of your
search. Even a basic ROS installation has a lot of messages, so a tool you

> should get familiar with is `grep`, grep lets you search through some text to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should get familiar with is `grep`. `grep` lets you search through some text to
```

shows you how to use the list operation and then how to use it to do a search. 

``` {.sourceCode .bash}
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~/Code/ros2multirobotbook/src$ ros2 interface list --only-msgs 
Messages:
    action_msgs/msg/GoalInfo
    action_msgs/msg/GoalStatus
	... <DOZENS OF DIFFERENT TYPES> ... 
	visualization_msgs/msg/MarkerArray
    visualization_msgs/msg/MenuEntry
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~/Code/ros2multirobotbook/src$ ros2 interface list --only-msgs | grep -i point
    geometry_msgs/msg/Point
    geometry_msgs/msg/Point32
    geometry_msgs/msg/PointStamped
    map_msgs/msg/PointCloud2Update
    pcl_msgs/msg/PointIndices
    rcl_interfaces/msg/FloatingPointRange
    sensor_msgs/msg/PointCloud
    sensor_msgs/msg/PointCloud2
    sensor_msgs/msg/PointField
    trajectory_msgs/msg/JointTrajectoryPoint
```

Using grep to search through CLI output is common tactic used by developers to
find just the specific information they need. The next two sub commands
`package` and `packages` can be used to first determine what ROS packages are on
your system, and then to drill down into an individual package to determine what

> messages are in that package. This tooling makes very easy to determine what

Reviewer: ```suggestion
messages are in that package. This tooling makes it very easy to determine what
```

action_tutorials_interfaces
actionlib_msgs
builtin_interfaces
composition_interfaces
diagnostic_msgs
example_interfaces
geometry_msgs
lifecycle_msgs
logging_demo
map_msgs
nav_msgs
pcl_msgs
pendulum_msgs
rcl_interfaces
rosgraph_msgs
rqt_py_common
sensor_msgs
shape_msgs
std_msgs
std_srvs
stereo_msgs
tf2_msgs
trajectory_msgs
turtlesim
unique_identifier_msgs
visualization_msgs
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~/Code/ros2multirobotbook/src$ ros2 interface package std_msgs | grep -i array
std_msgs/msg/Int8MultiArray
std_msgs/msg/Int32MultiArray
std_msgs/msg/MultiArrayLayout
std_msgs/msg/UInt64MultiArray
std_msgs/msg/Float32MultiArray
std_msgs/msg/UInt16MultiArray
std_msgs/msg/UInt32MultiArray
std_msgs/msg/Int16MultiArray
std_msgs/msg/ByteMultiArray
std_msgs/msg/Int64MultiArray
std_msgs/msg/Float64MultiArray
std_msgs/msg/UInt8MultiArray
std_msgs/msg/MultiArrayDimension

```

The next two commands in the pantheon of interface commands are particularly
helpful and you should remember them as they will make your life much easier. As
we have discussed previously all message publication, service calls, and action
calls in the CLI take in both the message type and data you want to transmit in

> YAML format. But what if you don't the message format, and you know a lot about

Reviewer: ```suggestion
YAML format. But what if you don't know the message format, and you don't know a lot about
```

YAML? The `interface show` and `interface proto` commands make this process
easier by respectively telling you first the message type and then the message
format. Recall earlier in the chapter when we called the `spawn` service on
our turtle simulation. We can use `interface show` to tell us broadly about the
service and what each of the values mean. We can then use `interface proto`,

> short for prototype to, then generate an empty message that we can then fill

Reviewer: ```suggestion
short for prototype, to generate an empty message that we can then fill
```

out. See the example below:

```
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~/Code/ros2multirobotbook/src$ ros2 interface show turtlesim/srv/Spawn 
float32 x
float32 y
float32 theta
string name # Optional.  A unique name will be created and returned if this is empty
---
string name
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~/Code/ros2multirobotbook/src$ ros2 interface proto turtlesim/srv/Spawn 
"x: 0.0
y: 0.0
theta: 0.0
name: ''
"
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~/Code/ros2multirobotbook/src$ ros2 service call /spawn turtlesim/srv/Spawn "{<copy and paste proto here>}"

```
You can see from the example above how handy these tools can be. It is worth
noting that you need to paste the prototype into a set of quotes and curly
braces for the call to work `"{<prototype>}"`. 

ROS 2 Launch

> ============

Reviewer: ```suggestion
============

```

The `launch` command is used to run ROS launch files. Up until this point we've
been running single ROS programs by hand using the `run` command, however this
is not how larger ROS systems are generally operated and many robots command

> tens if not hundreds of small program. The ROS launch command is different from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tens if not hundreds of small programs. The ROS launch command is different from
```

most of the other ROS commands in that it has no sub commands and has a single

> function, to start a ROS launch file that executes multiple of programs. These

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function: to start a ROS launch file that executes multiple of programs. These
```

> launch files are fairly simple as the are simply instructions to start multiple
> programs like a shell script. To illustrate this command let's take a look at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
launch files are fairly simple as they are simply instructions to start multiple
programs, like a shell script. To illustrate this command let's take a look at
```

                   package_name [launch_file_name]
                   [launch_arguments [launch_arguments ...]]

Run a launch file

positional arguments:
  package_name          Name of the ROS package which contains the launch file
  launch_file_name      Name of the launch file
  launch_arguments      Arguments to the launch file; '<name>:=<value>' (for
                        duplicates, last one wins)

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -d, --debug           Put the launch system in debug mode, provides more
                        verbose output.
  -p, --print, --print-description
                        Print the launch description to the console without
                        launching it.
  -s, --show-args, --show-arguments
                        Show arguments that may be given to the launch file.
  -a, --show-all-subprocesses-output
                        Show all launched subprocesses' output by overriding
                        their output configuration using the
                        OVERRIDE_LAUNCH_PROCESS_OUTPUT envvar.
```

Launch files are usually included with a ROS package and are commonly stored in a

> `launch` sub directory. Modern launch files are usually written in python and end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`launch` sub directory. Modern launch files are usually written in Python and end
```

> with the `*.launch.py` file extension. The `launch` command has two arguments,
> the first one is the package name and then launch file name. If you are unaware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the `*.launch.py` file extension. The `launch` command has two arguments:
the package name and the launch file name. If you are unaware
```

of the launch files in your package you can use tab completion to list all the

> available launch file. Finally, some launch files have arguments, that can be
> appended to the command. If you are unsure about what a launch file does, or
> what arguments it needs the `--print` and `--show-args` commands will tell you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available launch files. Finally, some launch files have arguments that can be
appended to the command. If you are unsure about what a launch file does, or
what arguments it needs, the `--print` and `--show-args` commands will tell you
```

a node would be one that controls a sensor or actuator that needs to perform
power on self test or calibration procedure prior to running. [The ROS design
docs give a great primer on the states and transitions in a lifecycle
node.](http://design.ros2.org/articles/node_lifecycle.html). Let's look at the
`lifecycle` command to determine what sub commands are available. 

```{.sourceCode .bash}
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~$ ros2 lifecycle -h
usage: ros2 lifecycle [-h]
                      Call `ros2 lifecycle <command> -h` for more detailed
                      usage. ...

Various lifecycle related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

Commands:
  get    Get lifecycle state for one or more nodes
  list   Output a list of available transitions
  nodes  Output a list of nodes with lifecycle
  set    Trigger lifecycle state transition

  Call `ros2 lifecycle <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~$ 

```

The `nodes` sub command will list all the lifecycle nodes on a given system, and
unfortunately our current demo code does not include a working example to

> list. Once you have listed the nodes you can this list each node's available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
list. Once you have listed the nodes you can list each node's available
```

transitions using `ros2 lifecycle list <nodename>`. These transitions are
dictated by the node's current state with some states having more transitions
available than others. If instead of available transitions you wish to query the

> current state you can use the `lifecycle get` to return the current state of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
current state you can use the `lifecycle get` command to return the current state of
```

your target node. Once you have satisfactorily determined the state of the node
and the available transitions the `lifecycle set` command can be used to trigger
the node to transition to a new state. Generally, these CLI commands are used to
diagnose failure modes of system, or to manually transition a particular
component. 

ROS 2 MSG (Message)

> ====================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
====================

```

ROS 2 Eloquent is the last version of ROS to use the message command. All of the
commands in `msg` are mirrored in the `interface` command. These features are
currently deprecated and will be removed in Foxy.  

ROS 2 PKG (Package)

> ====================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
====================

```

The ROS 2 package command is a very useful command to understand what ROS

> packages are installed on your system, where the are installed, and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
packages are installed on your system, where they are installed, and the
```

installed system packages. This sub command is often used with grep to help you
find out if a particular package is installed. 

Once you have located an installed package you can then have it list the
executables contained by the package using the `executables` command. This is
much more practical than finding the executables manually. The sub command takes
in a single argument which is the package name. The executables command has a
single optional argument `--full-path` which will output the full path to all
the executable programs. The example below shows an example of how to use these
commands to check the path for all of the turtlesim executables. 

```{.sourceCode .bash}
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~$ ros2 pkg list | grep turtle
turtlesim
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~$ ros2 pkg list | grep turtle
turtlesim
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~$ ros2 pkg executables turtlesim --full-path
/opt/ros/eloquent/lib/turtlesim/draw_square
/opt/ros/eloquent/lib/turtlesim/mimic
/opt/ros/eloquent/lib/turtlesim/turtle_teleop_key
/opt/ros/eloquent/lib/turtlesim/turtlesim_node
kscottz@kscottz-ratnest:~$ 
```
If you just wanted to know the path to the turtlesim executables you could use

> the `prefix` sub command, which returns the path for given packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `prefix` sub command, which returns the path for a given package's
```

executables. 

Each ROS package contains an XML file that contains metadata for the package,
including information such as the license, maintainer, and its dependencies. ROS
pkg has a handy `xml` sub command to print these files to the screen, saving you
the hassle of locating and opening the file. You can use grep on the output of

> this command to get just the info you need. The example below shows and
> example. The example below shows an example of `xml` and `prefix` used to find

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this command to get just the info you need. The example below shows an example of `xml` and `prefix` used to find
```
